docs/how_to_guides/configuration.rst, before:

Configuring Quart-DB
====================

The following configuration options are used by Quart-DB. They should
be set as part of the standard `Quart configuration
<https://pgjones.gitlab.io/quart/how_to_guides/configuration.html>`_.

================================ ==== ================
Configuration key                type default
-------------------------------- ---- ----------------
QUART_DB_DATABASE_URL            str
QUART_DB_MIGRATIONS_FOLDER       str  migrations
QUART_DB_DATA_PATH               str
QUART_DB_AUTO_REQUEST_CONNECTION bool
QUART_DB_STATE_TABLE_NAME        str  schema_migration
================================ ==== ================

``QUART_DB_DATABASE_URL`` allows this database url to be specified and
is ``None`` by default (set via constructor argument).

``QUART_DB_MIGRATIONS_FOLDER`` refers to the location of the
migrations folder relative to the app's root path. You can set
this to `None` in order to disable the migrations system.

``QUART_DB_DATA_PATH`` refers to the location of the data module
relative to the app's root path.

``QUART_DB_AUTO_REQUEST_CONNECTION`` can be used to disable (when
False) the automatic ``g.connection`` connection per request.

``QUART_DB_STATE_TABLE_NAME`` can be used to change the table Quart-DB
uses to store the database migration state.


SQLite configuration
--------------------

To use a relative path ``QUART_DB_DATABASE_URL`` should start with
``sqlite:///``, whereas for an absolute path it should start with
``sqlite:////``. In memory usage should be avoided as changes will not
be persisted.

Commit message:

Add a migrations timeout defaulting to 60s
This should protect against very long running migrations, or those
that hang (trying to get locks or otherwise).

The MigrationTimeoutError is used to make the error clearer, than
leaving as an asyncio.TimeoutError.

docs/how_to_guides/configuration.rst, after:

Configuring Quart-DB
====================

The following configuration options are used by Quart-DB. They should
be set as part of the standard `Quart configuration
<https://pgjones.gitlab.io/quart/how_to_guides/configuration.html>`_.

================================ ============ ================
Configuration key                type         default
-------------------------------- ------------ ----------------
QUART_DB_DATABASE_URL            str
QUART_DB_MIGRATIONS_FOLDER       str          migrations
QUART_DB_DATA_PATH               str
QUART_DB_AUTO_REQUEST_CONNECTION bool
QUART_DB_MIGRATION_TIMEOUT       float | None 60
QUART_DB_STATE_TABLE_NAME        str          schema_migration
================================ ============ ================

``QUART_DB_DATABASE_URL`` allows this database url to be specified and
is ``None`` by default (set via constructor argument).

``QUART_DB_MIGRATIONS_FOLDER`` refers to the location of the
migrations folder relative to the app's root path. You can set
this to `None` in order to disable the migrations system.

``QUART_DB_DATA_PATH`` refers to the location of the data module
relative to the app's root path.

``QUART_DB_AUTO_REQUEST_CONNECTION`` can be used to disable (when
False) the automatic ``g.connection`` connection per request.

``QUART_DB_STATE_TABLE_NAME`` can be used to change the table Quart-DB
uses to store the database migration state.

``QUART_DB_MIGRATION_TIMEOUT`` sets the maximum time the migrations
may take. Note that most ASGI servers will also timeout the startup
phase as well. This can be disabled by setting the value to ``None``.


SQLite configuration
--------------------

To use a relative path ``QUART_DB_DATABASE_URL`` should start with
``sqlite:///``, whereas for an absolute path it should start with
``sqlite:////``. In memory usage should be avoided as changes will not
be persisted.
