docs/how_to_guides/type_conversion.rst, before:

Convert between Python and Postgres types
=========================================

By default Quart-DB uses the default converters whilst ensuring that
JSON is converted, using the stdlib ``json.loads`` and ``json.dumps``
functions if required. Custom type converters are supported, but
depend on the DB backend used.

Postgres - asyncpg
------------------

To define a custom type converter (also called codecs) can be
specified the ``set_converter`` method can be used. For example for
enums:

.. code-block:: python

    from enum import Enum

    class Options(Enum):
        A = "A"
        B = "B"

    db.set_converter("options_t", lambda type_: type_.value, Options)

The keyword argument ``schema`` can be used to specify the schema to
which the typename belongs.

SQLite - aiosqlite
------------------

To define a custom type converter (also called codecs) can be
specified the ``set_converter`` method can be used. For example for
enums:

.. code-block:: python

    from enum import Enum

    class Options(Enum):
        A = "A"
        B = "B"

    db.set_converter(
        "options_t", lambda type_: type_.value, Options, pytype=Options
    )

Note the ``pytype`` argument is required and the keyword argument
``schema`` has no affect.

Commit message:

Add support for a psycopg backend
This is the other major postgresql DB engine in Python. As I've been
seeing odd behaviour with asyncpg this will be quite helpful in
tracking it down.

At the time of this commit psycopg 3.2 has not been released, and
hence this has been tested against the development branch of psycopg.

docs/how_to_guides/type_conversion.rst, after:

Convert between Python and Postgres types
=========================================

By default Quart-DB uses the default converters whilst ensuring that
JSON is converted to and from ``dict``s using the stdlib
``json.loads`` and ``json.dumps`` functions. Custom type converters
are supported, but depend on the DB backend used.

Postgres - asyncpg
------------------

A custom type converter (also called codecs) can be specified the
``set_converter`` method can be used. For example for enums:

.. code-block:: python

    from enum import Enum

    class Options(Enum):
        A = "A"
        B = "B"

    db.set_converter("options_t", lambda type_: type_.value, Options)

The keyword argument ``schema`` can be used to specify the schema to
which the typename belongs.

Postgres - psycopg
------------------

A custom type converter (also called adapter) can be specified the
``set_converter`` method can be used. For example for enums:

.. code-block:: python

    from enum import Enum

    class Options(Enum):
        A = "A"
        B = "B"

    db.set_converter("options_t", lambda type_: type_.value, Options)

The keyword argument ``schema`` has no affect.

SQLite - aiosqlite
------------------

To define a custom type converter (also called codecs) can be
specified the ``set_converter`` method can be used. For example for
enums:

.. code-block:: python

    from enum import Enum

    class Options(Enum):
        A = "A"
        B = "B"

    db.set_converter(
        "options_t", lambda type_: type_.value, Options, pytype=Options
    )

Note the ``pytype`` argument is required and the keyword argument
``schema`` has no affect.
