docs/index.rst, before:

:orphan:

.. title:: Quart-DB documentation

Quart-DB
========

Quart-DB is a `Quart <https://gitlab.com/pgjones/quart>`_ extension
that provides managed connection(s) to postgresql database(s). Using
Quart-DB you can,

 * connect to Postgresql databases,
 * on top of everything Quart can do.

Quart-DB uses `asyncpg <https://github.com/MagicStack/asyncpg>`_ to
connect to the databse and `buildpg
<https://github.com/samuelcolvin/buildpg>`_ to allow for named bind
parameters.

If you are,

 * new to Quart-DB then try the :ref:`quickstart`,
 * new to Quart then try the `Quart documentation
   <https://pgjones.gitlab.io/quart/>`_,

Quart-DB is developed on `GitHub
<https://github.com/pgjones/quart-db>`_. If you come across an issue,
or have a feature request please open an `issue
<https://github.com/pgjones/quart-db/issues>`_.If you want to
contribute a fix or the feature-implementation please do (typo fixes
welcome), by proposing a `merge request
<https://github.com/pgjones/quart-db/merge_requests>`_. If you want to
ask for help try `on gitter <https://gitter.im/python-quart/lobby>`_.

Tutorials
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   tutorials/index.rst

How to guides
-------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   how_to_guides/index.rst

Discussion
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   discussion/index.rst

References
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   reference/index.rst

Commit message:

Support SQLite databases
This adds a backend interface structure to the codebase modelled on
that used by Databases. This structure allows sqlite database
connections, via aiosqlite. This should, I hope, make the package more
useful and allows for more backends with time.

I've added a discussion document on why Quart-DB exists rather than
using Databases. In summary Databases has a design decision that makes
usage difficult in practice.

This has meant some compromises as supported SQL syntax is not the
same, with `FOR UPDATE` being the main example. In addition type
conversion is done differently for SQLite whereby the conversion to
SQL is done based on the Python type, rather than the column
type. Finally I've dropped the position parameters support as it is
hard to make syntax, but also as it is error prone.

Note that default users will now need to install quart-db[postgresql].

docs/index.rst, after:

:orphan:

.. title:: Quart-DB documentation

Quart-DB
========

Quart-DB is a `Quart <https://gitlab.com/pgjones/quart>`_ extension
that provides managed connection(s) to postgresql or sqlite
database(s). Using Quart-DB you can,

 * connect to Postgresql or SQLite databases,
 * on top of everything Quart can do.

Quart-DB when connecting to PostgresQL databases uses `asyncpg
<https://github.com/MagicStack/asyncpg>`_ with `buildpg
<https://github.com/samuelcolvin/buildpg>`_ to allow for named bind
parameters.

Quart-DB uses `aiosqlite <https://github.com/omnilib/aiosqlite>`_ to
connect to SQLite databases.

If you are,

 * new to Quart-DB then try the :ref:`quickstart`,
 * new to Quart then try the `Quart documentation
   <https://pgjones.gitlab.io/quart/>`_,

Quart-DB is developed on `GitHub
<https://github.com/pgjones/quart-db>`_. If you come across an issue,
or have a feature request please open an `issue
<https://github.com/pgjones/quart-db/issues>`_.If you want to
contribute a fix or the feature-implementation please do (typo fixes
welcome), by proposing a `merge request
<https://github.com/pgjones/quart-db/merge_requests>`_. If you want to
ask for help try `on gitter <https://gitter.im/python-quart/lobby>`_.

Tutorials
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   tutorials/index.rst

How to guides
-------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   how_to_guides/index.rst

Discussion
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   discussion/index.rst

References
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   reference/index.rst
